---
num: "p15"
desc: "tbd"
---

[15] Stuart Reges. 2003. Using Undergraduates As Teaching Assistants at a State University. In Proceedings of the 34th SIGCSE Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education (SIGCSE ’03). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 103–107. DOI: 
<http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/611892.611943>

By law, the University of Arizona is required to admit all students that graduated in the top 50% of their high school class. As a result, many are not adequately prepared for university work. Overpopulated classes and limited reach of the instructor causes a ton of stress in the introductory CS courses. 

The university decided to implement Stanford's system of using undergraduates as TAs. 

Three Primary Roles
- Instructor
- Head TA
- Section Leaders

Section Leaders Responsibilities
- Go to lecture
- Run their own hour long section
- Grade their homework and exams 
- Be a tutor/helper during labs 

Training Section Leaders
- Grade problems together
- Watch another section leader teach a topic
- Record section leaders and let them self-review


Who/What Benefits?
- Lower costs (Section TAs instead of Grad Students)
- Greater sense of community
- Improved the quality of instruction
- Section leaders learn the most

It’s been so successful that they’re starting to expand outside of just introductory CS courses, such as Discrete Mathematics.

Personal Thoughts
I think it's interesting to see the parallels between UCSB's program and Arizona's. Arizona definitely takes things a step further. Their undergraduate employees also lead their own sections, and grade their student's assignments/exams. I look forward to see how our program will evolve over time and if we can eventually reach the breadth of their program. I think the use of undergraduates is a great way to serve students and faculty alike. 

Mentees have more sources of help and support. 
Mentors reinforce their CS foundations and interpersonal skills. 
Instructors have a greater reach across their students and can get direct feedback on the quality of the course.
Departments save money by hiring less graduate students.

Kevin L.



