---
num: "p21"
desc: "tbd"
---

[21] Arto Vihavainen,  omas Vikberg, Ma i Luukkainen, and Jaakko Kurhila. 2013. Massive Increase in Eager TAs: Experiences from Extreme Apprenticeship-based CS1. In Proceedings of the 18th ACM Conference on Innovation and Technology in Computer Science Education (ITiCSE ’13). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 123–128. DOI: <http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2462476.2462508>

Johnny Z

Summary:
  Extreme Apprencticeship (XA) is a way of structuring undergraduate mentors such that they serve as an intermediate between TA's and students. Their responsibilities include mentoring students in a 1-1 setting, not in a 1-N setting such as during a TA-led section. Feedback between the mentors and professors was also heavily emphasized. Mentors (called Junior TAs), were asked a free-form questionnaire at the end about their experience. Common themes included mentors expecting learning opportunities, teaching opportunities, and social opportunities. Using a likert scale 1(lowest) - 5(highest), interpersonal skills developed for the Junior TAs were ranked highly (i.e. "I have become more proficient in understanding problems posed by others" had an average rating of 3.72). The program grew from 4 mentors in Fall to 26 the following year. Many students who served as mentors initially also came back to serve again.

Research Question-
	How to change the cycle of “Being taught to”, how can we (University of Helsinki) get more undergraduate students involved in teaching opportunities? How to structure such positions? 

Research Measurements-
	Researchers used a Likert scale, as well as free-form and open-ended questions to determine trends in the students (both the tutors as well as tutees) learning. They grouped free-form answers into general themes or topics which were most common. Common themes included students “expecting new learning opportunities and improving their own skills”, “did not expect teaching as a traditional talking head”, (i.e. no hand-holding), and “social aspects”.

Applications to CS190J-
	Many of the research results from this paper have been already applied to our 190J philosophy, such as the scaffolding of professor, TAs, mentors, students. From their free-form responses, it seems like there was a lot more expectations of mentors to have learning opportunities (76% expectation) compared to teaching opportunities (43% teaching). Teaching in this research is more of a lecturing style teaching. I think since so many of their responses involved helping others in the course, we should try to emphasize listening/understanding of student’s questions. For example, techniques to dig deeper or coo more out from a student’s questions, rather than answering right away. 

Extra Thoughts-
	I initially did not think that having students who just took the intro CS class should be mentoring the other students, because they are still relatively new themselves. However, the research paper said that there was no negative impact. That being said, I still think more experienced mentors could give the students more in-depth explanations.
