---
num: "p24"
desc: "tbd"
---


[24] Craig E. Wills, David Finkel, Michael A. Gennert, and Ma hew O. Ward. 1994. Peer Learning in an Introductory Computer Science Course. In Proceedings of the Twenty-  h SIGCSE Symposium on Computer Science Education (SIGCSE
Undergraduate Tutors for Introductory Courses SIGCSE’18, March 2018, Baltimore MD, USA
’94). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 309–313. DOI: <http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/191029.191157>

Laura Anthony -- Summary

	This paper discussed the use of undergraduate upper-level students in helping facilitate collaboration among students in introductory computer science courses at Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI). To overcome the impersonality of large lectures, the computer science department introduced an approach consisting of two main features: the use of peer learning assistants to help facilitate the peer learning process, and the use of software to teach and lessen the overhead of administering such a large number of students. 
	After the success of intensive collaboration in first-year Biology courses at WPI, the WPI computer science department decided to introduce this technique into its introductory courses. The course structure remained the same; it consisted of a regular lecture class instructed by a faculty member and a lab period led by a graduate student TA. The difference was in how they utilized the class time: there was a large focus on group work. In class meetings, students would form groups and work on in-class activities while the professor would be there to answer questions and go over the group problems at the end of class. The students also were assigned out-of-class activities that were led by the peer learning assistants. Each student in a group would contribute to a portion of the project, which would be assembled at the end. In lab, TAs would review specific concepts from lecture, and students would also have the opportunity to discuss any project issues with their peer learning assistant. 
 	I found it interesting that students were not only asked individual questions on exams, but also questions pertaining to their group projects. Each student group was given a group score therefore emphasizing the accountability of students to not just do the work, but also make sure that their group members did it and understood it as well. 
	The WPI computer science department also used software to register students, assign student groups, allow easy project submission, and gather information about the structure of the course. 
	Using peer learning, WPI hoped that students would become more involved with the material, develop a stronger sense of belonging, and be more prepared for future group projects. 
